Spreadsheets (#1783)
enkidevs/curriculum: excel/beginner/data-validation-filtering-grouping/filters.md

---
author: Stefan-Stojanovic

levels:
  - beginner

aspects:
  - new
  - workout

type: normal

category: how to

---

# What are filters

---
## Content

> Filters are used to temporarily hide some data in your spreadsheet so you can more easily analyze a selected part of data.

Reviewer: Hmmm maybe revise it like this?

```suggestion
Filters are used to temporarily hide some data in your spreadsheet to allow you to more obviously expose and analyze some specific part of your data.
```

For instance, let us say we have this spreadsheet:

![spreadsheet-without-filter](https://img.enkipro.com/3b9822e2a460ad19dfddd8dda3bd2dd9.png)

To create a filter on one column:

![singe-column-filter](https://img.enkipro.com/db56d82d1791e0bd8378e2bfba4d2a42.gif)

To create filters on multiple columns:

![multiple-column-filter](https://img.enkipro.com/c185b4b3c2a11a803074371cd5a60a47.gif)

**Note:** You can create filters on any column and any row.

If you create a filter on a column, all currently available cells in that column will be affected. The same goes for creating a filter on a row, all currently available columns will be affected. 

Creating filters on rows:

![multi-row-filter](https://img.enkipro.com/55fe3678202c29eb54edf969cce45e9b.gif)

To create a filter only on a specific range of cells, you need to select those cells and then go to `"data" > "create a filter"`

![specific-range-filter](https://img.enkipro.com/ce62af66247d6d80e4838b7e1c321e6d.gif)

Now that we know how to create a filter, let's use the spreadsheet above and add a filter to only display people who are older than `40` in `ascending` order.

> When you create a filter, its blank at the start. You need to select how you want to filter your data inside the filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a filter, it's blank at the start. You need to select how you want to filter your data inside the filter.

```

Press on the 3 green lines highlighted below:

![open-filter](https://img.enkipro.com/cd6317837dcecf514fe4b90d0b338efb.png)

This will open a popup window:

![conditions](https://img.enkipro.com/3e47d81491c9596077d5f7d5adcbcc7e.png)

In the `Filter by condition` section, select `greater than or equal to` and input `40` into the field below.

![selected-condition](https://img.enkipro.com/8b440f7fe255ffb051aba6ec6782ca4f.png)

Our table will now look like this:

![result-after-filter](https://img.enkipro.com/2bd5dedc2ee307bd5548b6590aa8dacc.png)

---
## Practice

What are filters used for?

???

> * Filters are used to temporarily hide some data in your spreadsheet so you can more easily analyze a selected part of data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Filters are used to hide a portion of the data in a spreadsheet to allow exposing or analyzing only a subset of the data

```
